---
title: '100 Days'
date: '2015-04-03T17:53:00+0100'
location: Brighton, England
excerpt: 'I''ve returned to 68 Middle Street just in time for the start of *100 days*, a collaborative project where the aim is to complete a creative process every day for one hundred days.'
tags:
- Clearleft
- Drawing
- Freelancing
---
Although Clearleft was first on the list of companies I'd like to freelance for, I was hesitant about having them be my first client, as it might throw into question [why I left in the first place][1]. Thankfully doing so has actually validated my decision to spend [14 months at the Guardian][2]; I've been surprised by just how often that experience has enabled me to contribute more meaningfully to our work with [John Lewis][3].

I also returned to 68 Middle Street in time for the start of *[100 days][4]*, a project in which several members of the team are aiming to complete and document a creative process (a 'design operation') every day for one hundred days. Based on [Michael Bierut's original idea][5], it is less about producing consistently great work, but rather an exercise in perseverance; as Woody Allen said "Eighty percent of success is showing up". The project started on 23 March and runs until 1 July 2015.

For my design operation, I've chosen to create a single-line drawing each day, a simple constraint that should help me produce a coherent body of work yet also allow a degree of flexibility as I progress.

{% include figure.html
  src="2015/04/100_days_01.jpg,2015/04/100_days_02.jpg,2015/04/100_days_03.jpg,2015/04/100_days_04.jpg,2015/04/100_days_05.jpg,2015/04/100_days_06.jpg,2015/04/100_days_07.jpg,2015/04/100_days_08.jpg,2015/04/100_days_09.jpg,2015/04/100_days_10.jpg,2015/04/100_days_11.jpg,2015/04/100_days_12.jpg"
  preset="thumbnail"
  caption="Drawings from days 1 to 12:
  * New bus for London
  * Plug
  * ITV Digital monkey
  * House keys
  * Glass
  * Wallet
  * Running shoe
  * Lego TV van
  * Fish and chips
  * Television remote
  * Petrified wood
  * Apple power brick"
  class="u-extend"
%}

12 days in, and I'm still enjoying the challenge, mainly as I've yet to fully master it. Illustrations have ranged from minimalist to expressive; some are quite detailed, others look more like deranged scribbles! I used to draw quite regularly as a child, but as graphic design drew me ever closer to the computer screen, the habit receded. It'll be interesting to see if this project reverses that trend.

[1]: /2013/10/moving_in_moving_on
[2]: /2015/01/changing_gears
[3]: http://johnlewis.com
[4]: http://clearleft100days.tumblr.com
[5]: http://designobserver.com/feature/five-years-of-100-days/24678
